# Resume_Template

Creating a good resume these days is very important. With the amount of applications a hiring manager or recruiter recieves, it's no wonder that they can only spare a few seconds to determine if you could be a fit.
So it is very important that your resume stands out from the rest.

Because of this, I decided to create my resume with LaTeX, a tool heavly used in academia, especially within the mathematics and science sectors. Similar to HTML/CSS, you can create your document using a .tex file, and you can style it with a .cls file.

This repository offers you a template for a resume created using LaTeX. Feel free to fork or download this template, and I encourage you to personalize it so that it really reflects who you are (I forked it myself in a private repo in order to do that).

## Setting up LaTeX for Windows and generating the PDF

1. Download and install MikTeX from here: [MikTeX](https://miktex.org/download)
2. Download and install Texmaker from here: [Texmaker](https://www.xm1math.net/texmaker/download.html)
3. Open the resume_template.tex file in Texmaker (if you like, you can also open the resume_template.cls file)
4. Click on the drop-down arrow beside **Quick Build** and select **LuaLaTeX** 
    * Click on the large sideways arrow to the left of the same box to generate the PDF 
5. Click on the large sideways arrow to the left of the **View PDF** box to generate the PDF to see the generated PDF file in the PDF viewer

If you cannot see the generated PDF file automatically after clicking on **LuaLaTeX** , then click on the PDF Viewer tab at the bottom left corner.
You can also find your PDF file in your local repository folder.

## The Set-up

There are only two files that matter here:
- resume_template.tex  This file contains the layout skeleton and the content that it carries. So, this is where you should replace all the lorem ipsum blindtext and other placeholder values with your own. Beware that I used a lot of custom commands to unclutter the document (you can find these commands in the .cls files). I did this so one can concentrate on the content in this document and the design in the other one. 
- resume_template.cls  This file contains all the package declarations, document, font, and layout settings, and also some new commands for some certain resume-specific aspects of the document (see these in action in the .tex document in order to get a better understand about how to use them). This file is where you can personalize the design at your leisure.  
  The PDF is not so important since it will be generated by using the other two.

## Things to Configure

- Change the photo to a professional image of yourself (and feel free to delete folder.png)
- Change the title to include your name and job title
- Change the contact information
- Use the \skill command to showcase your skills and skill levels using horizontal bars 
- Remove all the \loremispum \lorem \ut \duis command since they are blindtext commands, and replace them with your resume content
- Personalize the design (as mentioned above, even I created a private fork of this repository in order to adjust the design to represent me. I would not rely solely on this template for a resume)
    * Change the font if you like. Just make sure you own a license for the font you are using if it is not a free font, that is. Here is a helpful website in my opnion: [FontCatalogue](https://tug.org/FontCatalogue/)
	* Change the colors. Grey is not really suitable if you want to stand out from the mass
	* Add new sections or change/remove existing ones
	* Change the layout if you like. Feel free to re-use, change, improve, discard anything you like. It's your resume after all

## How I Approached it

- I created this template using this guide here: [Make a great looking CV (or resume) using Latex](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-TRcPIPkZz8).  In the end I deviated form that design quite a bit. For instance, I chose to use tcbraster for the entire document layout instead of using tcolorboxes together with minpages. It's still definitely worth a watch, unless you've never touched LaTeX before. In that case I recommend you do a tutorial or a course first.
- A LOT of research.  [CTAN](https://ctan.org/) and [TeX Stackexchange](https://tex.stackexchange.com/) are the best sources in my opinion. Especially CTAN because it also offers documentation for most, if not all, LaTeX packages.
- A LOT of trial and error.  There is no getting around this, I'm afraid. The end result will be worth it though, trust me.
